MySql
Assignment Questions 
Assignment 
Q1. What is a database? Differentiate between SQL and NoSQL databases. 
A database is a structured collection of data that is organized and managed for efficient storage, retrieval, and manipulation.
Data Model:
SQL databases: Follow a structured, tabular data model known as a relational model. Data is organized into tables with predefined schemas, and relationships between tables are established using primary and foreign keys.
NoSQL databases: Embrace various data models, including document-oriented, key-value, columnar, and graph-based models. They offer more flexibility in storing unstructured or semi-structured data.
Scalability:
SQL databases: Primarily scale vertically by increasing the hardware resources of a single server to handle more data and traffic
           NoSQL databases: Often designed to scale horizontally by distributing data across multiple servers in a cluster

Q2. What is DDL? Explain why CREATE, DROP, ALTER, and TRUNCATE are used with an example.    
DDL stands for Data Definition Language. It is a subset of SQL (Structured Query Language) used to define and manage the structure of a database and its objects. DDL statements are used to create, modify, and delete database objects such as tables, indexes, views, and constraints.
CREATE: The CREATE statement is used to create new database objects, such as tables, views, indexes, or constraints. It allows you to define the structure and properties of the object. 
CREATE TABLE employees (
  id INT,
  name VARCHAR(50),
  age INT
);
DROP: The DROP statement is used to remove existing database objects from the database. It permanently deletes the specified object and all associated data
DROP TABLE employees;
ALTER: The ALTER statement is used to modify the structure of an existing database object. It allows you to add, modify, or remove columns, constraints, and other properties of the object
ALTER TABLE employees
ADD COLUMN salary DECIMAL(10, 2);

TRUNCATE: The TRUNCATE statement is used to remove all rows from a table
TRUNCATE TABLE employees;
Q3. What is DML? Explain INSERT, UPDATE, and DELETE with an example. 

Q4. What is DQL? Explain SELECT with an example. 
DML stands for Data Manipulation Language, which is a subset of SQL used to manipulate data within a database.
INSERT: The INSERT statement is used to add new records or rows into a table.
INSERT INTO employees (id, name, age)
VALUES (1, 'John Doe', 30);
UPDATE: The UPDATE statement is used to modify existing records in a table.
UPDATE employees
SET age = 35
WHERE id = 1;
DELETE: The DELETE statement is used to remove one or more records from a table.
DELETE FROM employees
WHERE age > 40;
Q5. Explain Primary Key and Foreign Key. 
A primary key is a column or a combination of columns in a database table that uniquely identifies each row or record in that table
A foreign key is a column or a set of columns in a database table that refers to the primary key of another table

Q6. Write a python code to connect MySQL to python. Explain the cursor() and execute() method. 
import mysql.connector
conn = mysql.connector.connect(
    host="localhost",
    user="your_username",
    password="your_password",
    database="your_database"
)
cursor = conn.cursor()
query = "SELECT * FROM your_table"
cursor.execute(query)
result = cursor.fetchall()
for row in result:
    print(row)
cursor.close()
conn.close()


Q7. Give the order of execution of SQL clauses in an SQL query. 
The order of execution of SQL clauses in an SQL query is as follows:
FROM: Specifies the table or tables from which the data will be retrieved.
JOIN: Specifies how tables are related to each other, allowing data to be combined from multiple tables.
WHERE: Filters the rows based on a specified condition.
GROUP BY: Groups the rows based on one or more columns.
HAVING: Filters the groups based on a specified condition.
SELECT: Specifies the columns to be retrieved from the tables.
DISTINCT: Filters out duplicate rows from the result set.
ORDER BY: Sorts the result set based on one or more columns.
LIMIT/OFFSET: Limits the number of rows returned or specifies the starting point for the result set.

Note: Create your assignment in Jupyter notebook and upload it to GitHub & share that GitHub repository   link through your dashboard. Make sure the repository is public. 
Data Science Masters
